This release includes a [significant refactoring][pull] contributed by
[Julien Tournay][jto]. Giter8 has until now communicated via the
GitHub API, being intended for projects hosted on GitHub. This new
version replaces the GitHub API with the git protocol as its primary
transport.

#### GitHub compatibility

The use of GitHub repository references is still fully supported and
encouraged. For example, this command

    g8 unfiltered/unfiltered

will discover and apply the public template served by GitHub at this
address:

    git://github.com/unfiltered/unfiltered.g8.git

This repository is public, so the attempt to access the repository
anonymously succeeds. If it were private the attempt would fail, in
which case giter8 would then try an ssh endpoint:

    git@github.com:unfiltered/unfiltered.g8.git

For this operation any relevant ssh keys will be employed; if the keys
are associated with a user who has read access to the repository,
you're in business.

### Generic use

You can now use giter8 with any git URL.

    g8 git://github.com/unfiltered/unfiltered.g8.git

Or

    g8 git@github.com:unfiltered/unfiltered.g8.git

Giter8 also recognizes file URLs of local git repositories, so there's
no longer a need for the giter8 sbt plugin to test templates. Just
specify the absolute path to the directory of the project.

    g8 file:///home/nathan/Programming/unfiltered.g8

#### Authentication

Authentication mechanisms used in past versions of giter8 are no
longer relevant. If you can clone a repository with git, you can apply
a giter8 template hosted there.

#### Upgrade

If you're using conscript:

    cs n8han/giter8

[jto]: https://twitter.com/skaalf
[pull]: https://github.com/n8han/giter8/pull/64
[jgit]: http://www.eclipse.org/jgit/
