---
out: template.html
---

  [CC0]: https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/

Making your own templates
-------------------------

### Use CC0 1.0 for template licensing

We recommend licensing software templates under [CC0 1.0][CC0],
which waives all copyrights and related rights, similar to the "public domain."

If you reside in a country covered by the Berne Convention, such as the US,
copyright will arise automatically without registration.
Thus, people won't have legal right to use your template if you do not
declare the terms of license.
The tricky thing is that even permissive licenses such as MIT License and Apache License will
require attribution to your template in the template user's software.
To remove all claims to the templated snippets, distribute it under CC0, which is an international equivalent to public domain.

```
Template license
----------------
Written in <YEAR> by <AUTHOR NAME> <AUTHOR E-MAIL ADDRESS>
[other author/contributor lines as appropriate]

To the extent possible under law, the author(s) have dedicated all copyright and related
and neighboring rights to this template to the public domain worldwide.
This template is distributed without any warranty. See <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/>.
```

### template layout

The g8 runtime looks for templates in two locations in a given GitHub project:

- If the `src/main/g8` directory is present it uses `src/main/g8` (`src` layout)
- If it does not exist, then the root directory is used (root layout)

### src layout

This src layout is recommended so that it is easy for the template
itself to be an sbt project. That way,
an sbt plugin can be employed to locally test templates before pushing
changes to GitHub.

The easy way to start a new template project is with a Giter8 template
made expressly for that purpose:

    \$ g8 foundweekends/giter8.g8

This will create an sbt project with stub template sources nested
under `src/main/g8`. The file `default.properties` defines template
fields and their default values using the Java properties file format.

### default.properties

`default.properties` file may be placed in `project/` directory,
or directly under the root of the template.
Properties are simple keys and values that replace them.

[StringTemplate][st], wrapped by [Scalasti][scalasti], is the engine
that applies Giter8 templates, so template fields in source files are
bracketed with the `\$` character. For example, a "classname" field
might be referenced in the source as:

    class \$classname\$ {

[scalasti]: http://bmc.github.com/scalasti/
[st]: https://www.stringtemplate.org/

The template fields themselves can be utilized to define the defaults
of other fields.  For instance, you could build some URLs given the
user's GitHub id:

```
name = URL Builder
github_id=githubber
developer_url=https://github.com/\$github_id\$
project_url=https://github.com/\$github_id\$/\$name;format="norm"\$
```

This would yield the following in interactive mode:

```
name [URL Builder]: my-proj
github_id [githubber]: n8han
project_url [https://github.com/n8han/my-proj]:
developer_url [https://github.com/n8han]:
```

### Conditionals

All fields have a property named `truthy` to be used in [conditional expressions][conditionals].
`"y"`, `"yes"`, and `"true"` evaluate to `true`; anything else evaluates to `false`.

```
scala212 = yes
scala211 = no
```

These could be used in a template as follows:

<pre>
\$if(scala212.truthy)\$
scalaVersion := "2.12.3"
\$elseif(scala211.truthy)\$
scalaVersion := "2.11.11"
\$else\$
scalaVersion := "2.10.6"
\$endif\$
</pre>


These could also be used include/exclude files or directories:

```bash
src/main/g8
├── \$name__normalize\$
│   ├── \$if(jvm.truthy)\$jvm\$endif\$
│   │   └── src
│   │       └── main
│   │           └── scala
│   │               └── \$organization__packaged\$
│   │                   └── \$name;format="Camel"\$.scala

```

If you want to skip a directory from the path, but keep all nested directories and files, use `.` as the name of the directory. For example the next template:

```
src/main/g8
├── parent_folder
│   ├── \$if(cond.truthy)\$skip_folder\$else\$.\$endif\$
|   |   └── child_file
```

will be processed to

```
├── parent_folder
|   └── child_file
```

[conditionals]: https://github.com/antlr/stringtemplate4/blob/master/doc/templates.md#conditionals

### name field

The `name` field, if defined, is treated specially by Giter8. It is
assumed to be the name of a project being created, so the g8 runtime
creates a directory based off that name (with spaces and capitals
replaced) that will contain the template output. If no name field is
specified in the template, `g8`'s output goes to the user's current
working directory. In both cases, directories nested under the
template's source directory are reproduced in its output. File and
directory names also participate in template expansion, e.g.

    src/main/g8/src/main/scala/\$classname\$.scala

### package field

The `package` field, if defined, is assumed to be the package name
of the user's source. A directory named `\$package\$` expands out to
package directory structure. For example, `net.databinder` becomes
`net/databinder`.

### verbatim field

The `verbatim` field, if defined, is assumed to be the space delimited
list of file patterns such as `*.html *.js`. Files matching `verbatim`
pattern are excluded from string template processing.

### Maven properties

*maven properties* tell Giter8 to query the Central Maven Repository.
Instead of supplying a particular version (and having to update
the template with every release), specify a library and giter8 will
set the value to the latest version according to Maven Central.

The property value format is `maven(groupId, artifactId)`.
Keep in mind that Scala projects are typically published with a
Scala version identifier in the artifact id. So for the Unfiltered
library, we could refer to the latest version as follows:

```
name = My Template Project
description = Creates a giter8 project template.
unfiltered_version = maven(ws.unfiltered, unfiltered_2.11)
```

To only use the latest stable release (excluding Milestone builds,
Release candidates etc) specify a "stable" value in the
property value format `maven(groupId, artifactId, stable)`.
To use the latest stable version for the Scalatest library
we could refer to it as follows:

```
name = My Template Project
description = Creates a giter8 project template.
scalatest_version = maven(org.scalatest, scalatest_2.11, stable)
```

### root layout

There's an experimental layout called root layout,
which uses the root directory of the GitHub project as
the root of template.

Since you can no longer include template fields in the files
under `project` its application is very limited.
It might be useful for templates that are not for sbt builds
or templates without any fields.
