---
out: usage.html
---

Usage
-----

Template repositories can reside on GitHub and should be named with the
suffix `.g8`. We're keeping a [list of templates on the wiki][wiki].

To apply a template, for example, [unfiltered/unfiltered.g8][uft]:

[uft]: https://github.com/unfiltered/unfiltered.g8
[wiki]: https://github.com/foundweekends/giter8/wiki/giter8-templates

    \$ g8 unfiltered/unfiltered.g8

Giter8 resolves this to the `unfiltered/unfiltered.g8`
repository and queries GitHub for the project's template
parameters.
Alternatively, you can also use a git repository full name

    \$ g8 https://gitlab.com/unfiltered/unfiltered-gitlab.g8.git

or even a local template, using the `file://` protocol:

    \$ g8 file://path/to/template

For remote or local repositories it's possible to fetch a specific branch,
a specific tag or even a specific directory using command-line arguments:

    -b, --branch <value>     Resolve a template within a given branch
    -t, --tag <value>        Resolve a template within a given tag
    -d, --directory <value>  Resolve a template within the given 
                             subdirectory in the repo

 The default enclosing directory is `.`.

You'll be prompted for each parameter, with its default
value in square brackets:

    name [My Web Project]: 

Enter your own value or press enter to accept the default. After all
values have been supplied, giter8 fetches the templates, applies
the parameters, and writes them to your filesystem. 

If the template has a `name` parameter, it will be used to create base 
directory in the current directory (typical for a new project). 
Otherwise, giter8 will output its files and directories into 
the current directory, skipping over any files that already exist.

An output directory can be specified:

    -o, --out <value>        Output directory

this will override the generation of the directory's name according to the value
of the `name` variable and the current directory as the enclosing one.

To overwrite existing files in the destination folder, you can use:

    -f, --force              Force overwrite of any existing files in 
                             output directory

Once you become familiar with a template's parameters, you can enter
them on the command line and skip the interaction:

    \$ g8 unfiltered/unfiltered.g8 --name=my-new-website

Any unsupplied parameters are assigned their default values.

### Private Repositories

Giter8 will use your ssh key to access private repositories, just like git does.

### SSH Agent

Giter8 now support proxying to an SSH Agent which can be useful if you are using another SSH agent
such as `gpg-agent`.

Consider the following example:

`~/.gitconfig`:

    [url "ssh://git@github.com"]
        insteadOf = https://github.com

`~/.profile`:

    export SSH_AUTH_SOCK="\$(gpgconf --list-dirs agent-ssh-socket)"
    gpgconf --launch gpg-agent 

Then this would have previously failed with:

    \$ g8 unfiltered/unfiltered.g8
    
    ssh://git@github.com/unfiltered/unfiltered.g8.git: Auth fail

This now works provided that the GitHub public key is in your known hosts file.

You can do this by running:

    \$ ssh -T git@github.com

Optionally the known hosts file can be overridden using:

    -h, --known-hosts <value>  SSH known hosts file. If unset the location 
                               will be guessed.
