---
out: template.html
---

Making your own templates
-------------------------

The Giter8 runtime looks for templates in two locations in a given Github project:

- If the `src/main/g8` directory is present it uses `src/main/g8` (`src` layout)
- If it does not exist, then the root directry is used (**root layout**)

### root layout

For new templates, the root layout is recommended.
The easy way to start a new template project is with a giter8 template
made expressly for that purpose:

    \$ g8 foundweekends/giter8.g8

This will create an sbt project with stub template sources.
The file `project/default.properties` defines template
fields and their default values using the Java properties file format.

### src layout

Older templates embed a build inside the `src/main/g8` directory,
and places `default.properties` under it too.

### default.properties

`default.properties` file may be placed in `project/` directory,
or directly under the root of the tempalate.
Properties are simple keys and values that replace them.

[StringTemplate][st], wrapped by [Scalasti][scalasti], is the engine
that applies Giter8 templates, so template fields in source files are
bracketed with the `\$` character. For example, a "classname" field
might be referenced in the source as:

    class \$classname\$ {

[scalasti]: http://bmc.github.com/scalasti/
[st]: http://www.stringtemplate.org/

The template fields themselves can be utilized to define the defaults
of other fields.  For instance, you could build some URLs given the
user's Github id:

```
name = URL Builder
github_id=githubber
developer_url=https://github.com/\$github_id\$
project_url=https://github.com/\$github_id\$/\$name;format="norm"\$
```

This would yield the following in interactive mode:

```
name [URL Builder]: my-proj
github_id [githubber]: n8han
project_url [https://github.com/n8han/my-proj]:
developer_url [https://github.com/n8han]:
```

### name field

The `name` field, if defined, is treated specially by Giter8. It is
assumed to be the name of a project being created, so the g8 runtime
creates a directory based off that name (with spaces and capitals
replaced) that will contain the template output. If no name field is
specified in the template, `g8`'s output goes to the user's current
working directory. In both cases, directories nested under the
template's source directory are reproduced in its output. File and
directory names also participate in template expansion, e.g.

    src/main/g8/src/main/scala/\$classname\$.scala

### package field

The `package` field, if defined, is assumed to be the package name
of the user's source. A directory named `\$package\$` expands out to
package directory structure. For example, `net.databinder` becomes
`net/databinder`.

### verbatim field

The `verbatim` field, if defined, is assumed to be the space delimited
list of file patterns such as `*.html *.js`. Files matching `verbatim`
pattern are excluded from string template processing.

### Maven properties

*maven properties* tell Giter8 to query the Central Maven Repository.
Instead of supplying a particular version (and having to update
the template with every release), specify a library and giter8 will
set the value to the latest version according to Maven Central.

The property value format is `maven(groupId, artifactId)`.
Keep in mind that Scala projects are typically published with a
Scala version identifier in the artifact id. So for the Unfiltered
library, we could refer to the latest version as follows:

```
name = My Template Project
description = Creates a giter8 project template.
unfiltered_version = maven(net.databinder, unfiltered_2.11)
```
